.TH ZSH-DOTFILES 1 "December 2024" "v0.1.2" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
zsh-dotfiles \- Modern ZSH configuration framework
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B install.sh
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
A comprehensive ZSH configuration framework with Oh My Zsh integration,
modern CLI tools, and cross-platform support for macOS and Linux.
.PP
The installer sets up a complete ZSH environment with sensible defaults,
useful aliases, and optional modern CLI tools.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Installation Options"
.TP
.B \-\-help, \-h
Display help message and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-version, \-v
Show version number and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-yes, \-y
Non-interactive mode. Accept all defaults without prompting.
.TP
.B \-\-quiet, \-q
Minimal output. Implies \-\-yes.
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run, \-n
Show what would be done without making any changes.
.TP
.B \-\-verbose
Show detailed debug output for troubleshooting.
.SS "Installation Profiles"
.TP
.B \-\-minimal
Install core ZSH configuration and Oh My Zsh only, without optional tools.
.TP
.B \-\-full
Install all optional tools automatically.
.TP
.B \-\-skip\-tools
Skip the optional tools installation step entirely.
.TP
.BI \-\-tools " TOOLS"
Install specific tools only. TOOLS is a comma-separated list.
.br
Available: fzf, eza, bat, ripgrep, fd, zoxide, yazi, starship, atuin
.SS "Maintenance"
.TP
.B \-\-check, \-c
Verify existing installation integrity.
.TP
.B \-\-update
Update to the latest version using git pull.
.TP
.B \-\-repair, \-\-fix
Automatically repair common installation issues.
.TP
.B \-\-uninstall, \-u
Remove the ZSH configuration.
.SS "Advanced"
.TP
.BI \-\-user " USERNAME"
Run installation as the specified user. Useful for Docker testing.
.SH TOOLS
The following optional tools can be installed:
.TP
.B starship
Cross-shell prompt with git status, command duration, and more.
Category: enhanced
.TP
.B atuin
Shell history sync and search with fuzzy finding.
Category: enhanced
.TP
.B eza
Modern ls replacement with colors, icons, and git integration.
Category: enhanced
.TP
.B zoxide
Smarter cd command that learns your frequently used directories.
Category: core
.TP
.B fzf
General-purpose fuzzy finder for files, history, and more.
Category: core
.TP
.B bat
Cat clone with syntax highlighting and git integration.
Category: core
.TP
.B ripgrep (rg)
Ultra-fast grep alternative with smart defaults.
Category: core
.TP
.B fd
Fast and user-friendly find alternative.
Category: enhanced
.TP
.B yazi
Terminal file manager with image preview support.
Category: extra
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/zsh/
Main ZSH configuration directory (ZDOTDIR).
.TP
.I ~/.config/zsh/.zshrc
Primary ZSH configuration file.
.TP
.I ~/.config/zsh/.zshenv
Environment variables (sourced for all shells).
.TP
.I ~/.config/zsh/.zshlocal
User customizations. Not overwritten by updates.
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/zsh/
Data directory for history and caches.
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/oh-my-zsh/
Oh My Zsh installation directory.
.TP
.I ~/.zshenv
Bootstrap file that sets ZDOTDIR.
.SH COMMANDS
After installation, these commands are available:
.TP
.B health
Run comprehensive health check on ZSH configuration.
Shows status of ZDOTDIR, config files, Oh My Zsh, tools, PATH, and startup time.
.TP
.B z_status
Display detailed ZSH configuration information.
.TP
.B reload
Reload shell configuration (exec zsh).
.TP
.B als
Browse all aliases interactively with fzf.
.TP
.B zupdate
Update ZSH configuration to latest version.
.TP
.B zversion
Show current ZSH configuration version.
.TP
.B zcheck
Verify installation integrity (same as install.sh --check).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B ZDOTDIR
ZSH configuration directory. Set automatically to ~/.config/zsh.
.TP
.B ZSH
Oh My Zsh installation path.
.TP
.B Z_LOG_LEVEL
Logging verbosity. Values: DEBUG, INFO, WARN, ERROR.
.TP
.B NO_COLOR
If set, disables colored output (per no-color.org standard).
.TP
.B XDG_CONFIG_HOME
Override config directory (default: ~/.config).
.TP
.B XDG_DATA_HOME
Override data directory (default: ~/.local/share).
.TP
.B XDG_CACHE_HOME
Override cache directory (default: ~/.cache).
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Interactive installation:
.B install.sh
.TP
Automated installation with defaults:
.B install.sh --yes
.TP
Minimal install (ZSH + Oh My Zsh only):
.B install.sh --minimal --yes
.TP
Full install with all tools:
.B install.sh --full --yes
.TP
Install specific tools only:
.B install.sh --tools fzf,eza,bat
.TP
Repair broken installation:
.B install.sh --repair
.TP
Check installation health:
.B install.sh --check
.TP
Curl-pipe installation:
.B curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/chiptoma/dotfiles-zsh/main/install.sh | bash
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Error occurred. Rollback may have been attempted.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by the dotfiles-zsh contributors.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/chiptoma/dotfiles-zsh/issues
.SH COPYRIGHT
MIT License. See LICENSE file for details.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR zsh (1),
.BR starship (1),
.BR fzf (1),
.BR bat (1)
